- [Instructor] Being able to observe
the activity taking place in a system
is important for many reasons.
However, from a security perspective, it's essential.
Having visibility into a system through its logs
can alert us to suspicious behavior
that detects an ongoing attack.
If a security incident is discovered in a system
that has good logging,
it's possible to identify the attack vector,
the extent of the attack, and possibly the attacker.
Logs can also serve as great mechanisms
for establishing audit trails for sensitive operations
that may be exploited by insiders.
Like most other security concerns,
microservices present a unique challenge,
because sensitive operations that once occurred
in process now span multiple distributed components.
This causes logging to be fragmented
across the multiple services,
and discrepancies can arise between logging strategies used
by different teams.
Tracing is one of the most important techniques
that we can use to overcome these challenges related
to logging in microservice architectures.
Using a correlation ID associated with each request,
we can trace an event that is distributed
over several microservices.
When each microservice includes the correlation ID
of the event in their logs,
the event can be reassembled at a later point in time
using a common thread of information.
This is helpful for aggregating system activities
into a single event.
We can then use this information to support
a security inquiry or to determine
what went wrong in an incident.
To make logs more useful and easy to consume,
a common logging structure should be established
across the teams that build your microservices.
Typically, it's standard to include information
about when an audited event took place, who was involved,
what type of event it was,
and what section of the code invoked it.
If you're using the same language across your microservices,
I would highly recommend deciding upon
a standard logging framework
and mandating a configuration file
that establishes the logging pattern used across your teams
that build microservices.
Teams should also remember to log unsuccessful activities
that were attempted as well,
because these events like authorization failures,
error in HTTP codes, and invalid endpoint URLs,
can indicate an attempted attack
or an attacker running a scan.
Since microservices are distributed,
and there may be many instances of a single microservice,
all of your logs should be sent to a central host
where they're collected and aggregated.
This allows all of the log information to be gathered
in one spot where it can be searched
to provide a complete picture of activity
into the distributed system.
There are many open-source and commercial tools available
to perform this job.
If you're interested in an open-source tool,
check out the elastic stack platform.
it's very feature-rich and includes capabilities
for monitoring, which we're going to discuss next.
Once the information from your microservices
is logged centrally,
automated monitoring can identify and alert developers
to suspicious behavior in the system.
These alerts typically focus on traffic
that fails due to mutual TLS, invalid access tokens,
or excessive traffic which can be an indicator
of an attacker probing your system.
Once detected,
alerts can be issued through an instant response system
that proceeds through a series of escalated notifications
to ensure they receive the appropriate attention.
Application logs are invaluable,
not just for troubleshooting,
but from a security standpoint.
If you apply monolithic logging strategies
to a microservice architecture,
you'll quickly be disappointed and frustrated
with the level of observability
that you get into your system.
The strategies we discuss can give you a holistic view
of your distributed system,
that provides valuable insights
into the security position of its operations.